# cs-150-project-c
Grace Yishak <br>
CS 150<br>
Mike Ryu

# Context:
The region I chose for my project was the state of New York. New York intrigued me because it is a state I have always been interested in moving to post-grad and I was interested in how the cost of living differs from California where I currently live.
# Data: 
The first dataset I used for my project was annual household income in New York from FRED. This data spanned from January 1984 to January 2023. The reason I chose this dataset was because it had a large span of 39 years which allows the user to see concrete trends. Another reason I used this dataset is because I wanted the household income to be a baseline for my project. This data will be used to compare other household items like housing, gasoline, and electricity. The next dataset I used was the house price index in New York. I used this dataset to allow users to see the trends spanning from 1990 to 2023 and help users make an informed decision if it is the best time to buy a home based on the current trends. Housing is a huge topic, especially for the younger generation. They are plagued with the question of if they will be able to afford a home by the time they are even 40. I wanted to use data to give users more indication of how the housing market is currently and aid users in making wise and informed decisions like if this is the time to purchase a home. Another dataset I used was the gasoline prices in New York from 2012-2025 and electricity prices from 2012-2024. I picked these two topics because I tried to think on a personal level about what topics I worry about and care about in the future that are quite important to look into and that is how I picked gasoline and electricity. Looking into gasoline, gas prices ($ per gallon) have been a hot topic over the last couple of years and these prices vary from each state. I wanted to give users a clear picture of the trend of these prices and if this is something they can afford. This will inform users and help them get a clear picture so they can make wise decisions about what to do next-like if it's time to start using public transportation or purchasing an electric car. I also included electricity prices. Electricity is another essential household good that many people depend upon especially in New York with their harsh weather. Like gasoline, it is important to keep track of the prices of household essentials over time to make wise and informed decisions. Users can use this data to possibly find ways to decrease their electricity use for a certain year due to the price jump.  
# Thesis Statement:
Due to the correlation between annual freshwater withdrawals and agricultural land in Asia,
those living in Asia must push lawmakers to make legislation that reduces the amount of freshwater used through methods like
irrigation management to create a safer environment for future generations. <br><br>
# Strategies: 
I took much information for SwD for my dashboard. Something that I  wanted to implement was strategies from Chapter 6 which it spoke much about simplicity and not overfeeding users with data that is unneeded. I tried to incorporate that in my dashboard as I focused only on 4 datasets but I made sure those datasets were major parts of the household, like the housing market, gasoline prices, and electricity prices, all compared with income. The message can easily get diluted if users are forced data that is not necessary in adding to the overall concept and story. This is something I kept in mind throughout the project. I focused on aesthetics as well. The theme of my dashboard did not incorporate a lot of color and resembles a school chalkboard to indicate to users that this dashboard is something they can learn from. Another strategy I used from SwD was the use of color. I drew inspiration from Lab 4 as well where certain topics were shown with certain colors throughout the dashboard. Similarly in my dashboard, every component was its own color. This is important for instance if green is associated with gasoline prices and it is used on a different graph users will remember green from its association with gasoline and will know what the graph is depicting. SwD did warn readers of using too much color which I was mindful of, I tried to make all colors the same type of vibrancy and saturation and while I did use color for my data, I traded that off with a black and white theme dashboard to level it out. 
Lastly, in my presentation, there was some controversy with my use of a bar graph instead of a line graph when depicting income prices. This decision was not made hastily and did take much thought. I understand the reasons and respect why SwD would not approve of this graph. Personally speaking, when I come across a dashboard online it is very hard to focus when there are the same graphs over and over again. I enjoy versatile graphs that will draw my attention. Currently, we live in a world where users do not have the same attention span as 10 years ago, which is when this book was published. With recent developments in new social media, the average user needs a dashboard to cater to that. My use of a bar graph to depict income was to add versatility to my dashboard but keep the message and story as well. I also wanted to take note that my data spread out enough that the majority of users I asked were able to see the difference between any two bars. I also included a hover component which will tell the users the income amount if they would like more detail.
# Stories:
The first story that could be derived by exploring the data is when a good time to buy a house would be in New York. This data spans 1990 to 2023 and users are able to use the data to see if the cost of homes are declining or rising to pick the right time to buy a home in New York. Another story that could be derived from the data is the significant jump in gasoline prices from 2020 to 2022. Looking at the data from 2012, that time from 2020-2022 is the largest price jump. There was a decline in 2023 but the price is one of the largest since 2015. Lastly, as gasoline prices are on a modest decline, for now, users can compare this to a large incline in electricity prices from 2022 to 2023. This can help users make informed decisions about possibly taking steps to reduce how much electricity they use due to the rise in prices.  
# Work Cited:
“Real Median Household Income in New York.” FRED, 11 Sept. 2024, fred.stlouisfed.org/series/MEHOINUSNYA672N. <br><br>
“All-Transactions House Price Index for New York.” FRED, 25 Feb. 2025, fred.stlouisfed.org/series/NYSTHPI. <br><br>
NYSERDA, www.nyserda.ny.gov/Energy-Prices/Motor-Gasoline/Monthly-Average-Motor-Gasoline-Prices#NY-Statewide. Accessed 24 Mar. 2025. <br><br>
NYSERDA, www.nyserda.ny.gov/Energy-Prices/Electricity/Monthly-Avg-Electricity-Residential. Accessed 24 Mar. 2025. 




 